# Jsr160

Search
⌘ + k
Using JSR-160 Connectors
For remote access, Spring JMX module offers two
FactoryBean
implementations inside the
org.springframework.jmx.support
package for creating both server- and client-side
connectors.
Server-side Connectors
To have Spring JMX create, start, and expose a JSR-160
JMXConnectorServer
, you can use the
following configuration:
```
<
bean
id
=
"serverConnector"
class
=
"org.springframework.jmx.support.ConnectorServerFactoryBean"
/>
Copied!
```
By default,
ConnectorServerFactoryBean
creates a
JMXConnectorServer
bound to
service:jmx:jmxmp://localhost:9875
. The
serverConnector
bean thus exposes the
local
MBeanServer
to clients through the JMXMP protocol on localhost, port 9875. Note
that the JMXMP protocol is marked as optional by the JSR 160 specification. Currently,
the main open-source JMX implementation, MX4J, and the one provided with the JDK
do not support JMXMP.
To specify another URL and register the
JMXConnectorServer
itself with the
MBeanServer
, you can use the
serviceUrl
and
ObjectName
properties, respectively,
as the following example shows:
```
<
bean
id
=
"serverConnector"
class
=
"org.springframework.jmx.support.ConnectorServerFactoryBean"
>
<
property
name
=
"objectName"
value
=
"connector:name=rmi"
/>
<
property
name
=
"serviceUrl"
value
=
"service:jmx:rmi://localhost/jndi/rmi://localhost:1099/myconnector"
/>
</
bean
>
Copied!
```
If the
ObjectName
property is set, Spring automatically registers your connector
with the
MBeanServer
under that
ObjectName
. The following example shows the full set of
parameters that you can pass to the
ConnectorServerFactoryBean
when creating a
JMXConnector
:
```
<
bean
id
=
"serverConnector"
class
=
"org.springframework.jmx.support.ConnectorServerFactoryBean"
>
<
property
name
=
"objectName"
value
=
"connector:name=iiop"
/>
<
property
name
=
"serviceUrl"
value
=
"service:jmx:iiop://localhost/jndi/iiop://localhost:900/myconnector"
/>
<
property
name
=
"threaded"
value
=
"true"
/>
<
property
name
=
"daemon"
value
=
"true"
/>
<
property
name
=
"environment"
>
<
map
>
<
entry
key
=
"someKey"
value
=
"someValue"
/>
</
map
>
</
property
>
</
bean
>
Copied!
```
Note that, when you use a RMI-based connector, you need the lookup service (
tnameserv
or
rmiregistry
) to be started in order for the name registration to complete.
Client-side Connectors
To create an
MBeanServerConnection
to a remote JSR-160-enabled
MBeanServer
, you can use the
MBeanServerConnectionFactoryBean
, as the following example shows:
```
<
bean
id
=
"clientConnector"
class
=
"org.springframework.jmx.support.MBeanServerConnectionFactoryBean"
>
<
property
name
=
"serviceUrl"
value
=
"service:jmx:rmi://localhost/jndi/rmi://localhost:1099/jmxrmi"
/>
</
bean
>
Copied!
```
JMX over Hessian or SOAP
JSR-160 permits extensions to the way in which communication is done between the client
and the server. The examples shown in the preceding sections use the mandatory RMI-based implementation
required by the JSR-160 specification (IIOP and JRMP) and the (optional) JMXMP. By using
other providers or JMX implementations (such as
MX4J
) you
can take advantage of protocols such as SOAP or Hessian over simple HTTP or SSL and others,
as the following example shows:
```
<
bean
id
=
"serverConnector"
class
=
"org.springframework.jmx.support.ConnectorServerFactoryBean"
>
<
property
name
=
"objectName"
value
=
"connector:name=burlap"
/>
<
property
name
=
"serviceUrl"
value
=
"service:jmx:burlap://localhost:9874"
/>
</
bean
>
Copied!
```
In the preceding example, we used MX4J 3.0.0. See the official MX4J
documentation for more information.